Every day we make choices that can affect our relationship with Jehovah.
When there's a clear scriptural command, the right choice may seem easy.
But what if there's not?
How can we be sure we're making a wise decision?
An invitation to our niece's wedding arrived.
Thomas was excited about it.
I was excited too.
But the ceremony was being held at a local church.
I wondered if it would still be okay for me to attend.
Even though Thomas wasn't yet willing to accept a Bible study,
he gradually softened over the years since I came into the truth.
I knew he understood why I would never enter a church for worship.
But what about attending a wedding?
Jehovah approves of weddings.
That afternoon, I went to help Amy plan a menu for the Pioneer School lunch coming up.
She noticed I was a bit distracted.
So I told her my concerns about the wedding.
But you're not thinking of going, are you?
Amy sure had a strong opinion on the matter.
But I didn't feel she really understood my situation.
Although I appreciated her concern, I felt like she was judging me.
The next day, I decided to visit Charlotte and Ellen and ask their advice.
Like me, Charlotte had come into the truth many years before Ellen.
So they really understood my situation.
Is Amy right?
Would it be wrong to attend the wedding?
What would you do if you were moon?
Charlotte explained that in situations with is no specific Bible command,
it becomes a matter of conscience.
And what one person's conscience allows may be different from another.
The important thing is that we make decisions that leave us with a good conscience.
But how do I do that?
Dear Emma, it's really a matter of training.
Ellen showed me the scripture in Hebrews 5 is 14 where the Apostle Paul wrote,
solid food belongs to mature people.
To those who through use have the powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong.
But Paul didn't just write those words.
He lived them.
He carefully studied the principles in God's Word.
And as a result, you was able to make decisions that left him with a good conscience.
So even when there's no stated law on a matter, we can always find a Bible principle that can give us insight into God's thinking.
So I made it a matter of prayer and then I got to work.
I researched articles in the Watchtower Publications Index and Research Guide.
I found a really good thought in chapter 2 of the God's love book.
I also read about others who faced similar situations and what Bible principles they found helpful.
Then I meditated on all these.
As I kept studying, I was able to bring my conscience in harmony with Jehovah's spirit, not just with my heart.
I realized that having a Bible-trained conscience doesn't mean everyone will always think exactly alike.
And that's okay.
But if we train our conscience by applying Bible principles, it will guide us along in life so that each of us can remain in God's love.